Add docs on scheduler MultiPoint config (#30442)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/scheduling/config.md

   least one bind plugin is required.
1. `postBind`: This is an informational extension point that is called after
   a Pod has been bound.

> 1. `multiPoint`: This is a config-only field that allows plugins to be enabled for 

Reviewer: enabled or disabled

only has one pending pods queue.
{{< /note >}}

> ### MultiPoint config

Reviewer 2: I'd write:
```suggestion
## Plugins that apply to all extension points {#multipoint}
```
The fragment identifier will then be `multipoint`.

Also, under “Extension points” (line 47), I'd mention and hyperlink to this section.

Author: made this `multiple extension points` rather than `all`, think that's clearer

There is an additional field in the profile config, `MultiPoint`, which allows 
for easily enabling or disabling a plugin across several extension points. The intent 
of `MultiPoint` config is to simplify the configuration needed for users and administrators 

> when using custom profiles.

Reviewer 2: From the example YAML, tt looks like the field is called `multiPoint` (true camelCase).

> Consider a plugin, `MyPlugin`, which implements the `PreScore`, `Score`, `PreFilter`, 

Reviewer: `preScore`, `score`, `preFilter` and `filter`.

and `Filter` extension points. To enable `MyPlugin` for all its available extension 

> points, the profile config simply looks like:

Reviewer 3: try to [avoid terms like "simply"](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-words-that-assume-a-specific-level-of-understanding)

```suggestion
points, the profile config looks like:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
      multiPoint:
        enabled:
        - name: 'MyPlugin'
```

This would equate to manually enabling `MyPlugin` for all of its extension 
points, like so:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: non-multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
      preScore:
        enabled:
        - name: 'MyPlugin'
      score:
        enabled:
        - name: 'MyPlugin'
      preFilter:
        enabled:
        - name: 'MyPlugin'
      filter:
        enabled:
        - name: 'MyPlugin'

> ```

Reviewer: Perhaps add that in the future, if `MyPlugin` implementes another extension point in a new version, you would automatically get it when you upgrade.

Specific extension points can be excluded from `MultiPoint` expansion using 

> the `disabled` fields. This works with disabling default plugins, out-of-tree plugins, 

Reviewer 4: nit: should it be field instead?

```suggestion
the `disabled` field. This works with disabling default plugins, out-of-tree plugins, 
```

Reviewer: I think we should avoid talking about out-of-tree plugins in official k8s documentation.

Author: I don't disagree, but since this is different than how previous extension points treated out-of-tree plugins and this does apply to them, should those aspects be noted somewhere? Maybe part of the scheduling framework docs?

or with the wildcard (`'*'`) to disable all plugins. An example of the above to 
disable `Score` and `PreScore` would be:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: non-multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
      multiPoint:
        enabled:
        - name: 'MyPlugin'
      preScore:
        disabled:
        - name: '*'
      score:
        disabled:
        - name: '*'
```

> In `v1beta3`, all default plugins are enabled internally through `MultiPoint`. 

Reviewer: link to `#scheduling-plugins`

However, individual extension points are still available to allow flexible 
reconfiguration of the default values (such as ordering and Score weights). For 
example, consider two Score plugins `DefaultScore1` and `DefaultScore2`, each with 
a weight of `1`. They can be reordered with different weights like so:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:

>       score:

Reviewer: multiPoint? Order only really matters for Filter

Author: Yeah I was trying to show a couple things here, that we can reorder *and* re-weight the plugins. Order technically only matters for Filter, true, but I think this still gets both of those points across

Reviewer: sounds good

1. Specific extension points run first, and their settings override whatever is set elsewhere
2. Plugins manually configured through `MultiPoint` and their settings
3. Default plugins and their default settings

To demonstrate the above hierarchy, the following example is based on these plugins:
|Plugin|Extension Points|
|---|---|
|`DefaultQueueSort`|`QueueSort`|
|`CustomQueueSort`|`QueueSort`|
|`DefaultPlugin1`|`Score`, `Filter`|
|`DefaultPlugin2`|`Score`|
|`CustomPlugin1`|`Score`, `Filter`|
|`CustomPlugin2`|`Score`, `Filter`|

A valid sample configuration for these plugins would be:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
      multiPoint:
        enabled:
        - name: 'CustomQueueSort'
        - name: 'CustomPlugin1'
          weight: 3
        - name: 'CustomPlugin2'
        disabled:
        - name: 'DefaultQueueSort'
      filter:
        disabled:
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin1'
      score:
        enabled:
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin2'
```

Note that there is no error for re-declaring a `MultiPoint` plugin in a specific 

> extension point. The re-declaration is simply ignored (and logged), as specific extension points 

Reviewer 3: Word choice, same as above

```suggestion
extension point. The re-declaration is ignored (and logged), as specific extension points
```

take precedence.

Besides keeping most of the config in one spot, this sample does a few things:

> * Enables the custom QueueSort plugin and disables the default one

Reviewer 4: nit: should this be in a code block instead just like `CustomPlugin1` below?
```suggestion
* Enables the custom `QueueSort` plugin and disables the default one
```

* Enables `CustomPlugin1` and `CustomPlugin2`, which will run first for all of their extension points
* Disables `DefaultPlugin1`, but only for `Filter`
* Reorders `DefaultPlugin2` to run first in `Score` (even before the custom plugins)

> Without `MultiPoint` configuration, the above snippet would equate to this:

Reviewer: Maybe explicitly disable `*` in `multiPoint` to make it clearer?

Author: In this section I'm actually showing what the equivalent in a pre-v1beta3 config would be. I tried updating the wording here to make that clearer. I could still add the `disable: *` to `multiPoint` if you think that would help too

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Plugins that apply to multiple extension points {#multipoint}

Reviewer: Wait, this section should be after `Multiple profiles` and before `Scheduler configuration migrations`

> There is an additional field in the profile config, `multiPoint`, which allows 

Reviewer: Add `Starting from kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3`

Consider a plugin, `MyPlugin`, which implements the `preScore`, `score`, `preFilter`, 
and `filter` extension points. To enable `MyPlugin` for all its available extension 
points, the profile config looks like:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
      multiPoint:
        enabled:
        - name: MyPlugin
```

This would equate to manually enabling `MyPlugin` for all of its extension 
points, like so:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: non-multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
      preScore:
        enabled:
        - name: MyPlugin
      score:
        enabled:
        - name: MyPlugin
      preFilter:
        enabled:
        - name: MyPlugin
      filter:
        enabled:
        - name: MyPlugin
```

One benefit of using `multiPoint` here is that if `MyPlugin` implements another 
extension point in the future, the `multiPoint` config will automatically enable it 
for the new extension.

Specific extension points can be excluded from `MultiPoint` expansion using 

> the `disabled` field. This works with disabling default plugins, out-of-tree plugins, 

Reviewer: I think you should say non-default plugins. There are official in-tree plugins that are disabled by default, and you can affect those. The out-of-tree plugins behave similarly to custom in-tree plugins.

Author: Sounds good, updated it to say non-default

plugins, non-default plugins, or with the wildcard (`'*'`) to disable all plugins. 

> An example of the above to disable `Score` and `PreScore` would be:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An example of this, disabling `Score` and `PreScore`, would be:
```

|`CustomPlugin1`|`Score`, `Filter`|
|`CustomPlugin2`|`Score`, `Filter`|

A valid sample configuration for these plugins would be:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
      multiPoint:
        enabled:
        - name: 'CustomQueueSort'
        - name: 'CustomPlugin1'
          weight: 3
        - name: 'CustomPlugin2'
        disabled:
        - name: 'DefaultQueueSort'
      filter:
        disabled:
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin1'
      score:
        enabled:
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin2'
```

Note that there is no error for re-declaring a `MultiPoint` plugin in a specific 
extension point. The re-declaration is ignored (and logged), as specific extension points 
take precedence.

Besides keeping most of the config in one spot, this sample does a few things:
* Enables the custom `queueSort` plugin and disables the default one
* Enables `CustomPlugin1` and `CustomPlugin2`, which will run first for all of their extension points
* Disables `DefaultPlugin1`, but only for `filter`
* Reorders `DefaultPlugin2` to run first in `score` (even before the custom plugins)

> In older versions of the config prior to `v1beta3`, without `multiPoint`, the above snippet would equate to this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In versions of the config before `v1beta3`, without `multiPoint`, the above snippet would equate to this:
```

```yaml

> apiVersion: kubescheduler.config.k8s.io/v1beta3

Reviewer: I think this either should be v1beta2 or just add the disable `*`.

Author: went with `v1beta2` and pointed that out. `multiPoint.disabled: *` would mean all of the other default plugins need to be explicitly enabled which isn't exactly the comparison I was trying to draw here

kind: KubeSchedulerConfiguration
profiles:
  - schedulerName: multipoint-scheduler
    plugins:
    
      # Disable the default QueueSort plugin
      queueSort:
        enabled:
        - name: 'CustomQueueSort'
        disabled:
        - name: 'DefaultQueueSort'
        
      # Enable custom Filter plugins
      filter:
        enabled:
        - name: 'CustomPlugin1'
        - name: 'CustomPlugin2'
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin2'
        disabled:
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin1'
        
      # Enable and reorder custom score plugins
      score:
        enabled:
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin2'
          weight: 1
        - name: 'DefaultPlugin1'
          weight: 3
```

While this is a complicated example, it demonstrates the flexibility of `MultiPoint` config 
as well as its seamless integration with the existing methods for configuring extension points.

> ## {{ heading "whatsnext" %}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}
```

for the new extension.

Specific extension points can be excluded from `MultiPoint` expansion using 

> the `disabled` field. This works with disabling default plugins, non-default plugins, 

Reviewer: Maybe let's say:

using the `disabled` field for the extension point.
